README.md, before:

# 109 Python Problems for CCPS 109

**Beginner Python coders can watch the video [Solving 109 Python Problems for CCPS 109](https://youtu.be/a9EsZl9ryWg) on YouTube for a demonstration of how to solve these problems and use the automated tester.**

This collection features a total of 369 different Python problems suitable for university level computer science majors from the first freshman introductory course all the way to senior level courses on algorithms, as taught by [Ilkka Kokkarinen](http://www.scs.ryerson.ca/~ikokkari/) for the Chang School of Continuing Education, Toronto Metropolitan University, Toronto, Canada. The lecture material and example Python programs of that introductory Python course are also freely available in the GitHub repository [ikokkari/PythonExamples](https://github.com/ikokkari/PythonExamples).

The specifications for all these lab problems are collected in the file [109 Python Problems.pdf](https://github.com/ikokkari/PythonProblems/blob/main/109%20Python%20Problems%20for%20CCPS%20109.pdf). Another set of problems was collected to the document [Additional Python Problems.pdf](https://github.com/ikokkari/PythonProblems/blob/main/Additional%20Python%20Problems.pdf), holding another 123 problems in addition to the original problem collection. A third set was collected to the document [Third Python Problem Collection.pdf](https://github.com/ikokkari/PythonProblems/blob/main/Third%20Python%20Problem%20Collection.pdf), holding the final 123 problems. All three collections use the same automated tester script [tester109.py](https://github.com/ikokkari/PythonProblems/blob/main/tester109.py) to verify the correctness of student solutions.

These problems are suitable for students who have already completed some introductory collection of finger practice exercises on Python language basics, such as [CodingBat Python](https://codingbat.com/python). The author also has a [similar collection of Java problems](https://github.com/ikokkari/CCPS209Labs) suitable for a second course on object oriented programming in Java and the first course on data structures and algorithms. Everyone teaching or learning Python is welcome to use, adapt and distribute these problems and the associated acceptance tester for their own purposes as they see fit.

A bounty for each unclaimed problem is available to the first person to solve that problem. The file [bounty.md](https://github.com/ikokkari/PythonProblems/blob/main/bounty.md) contains more information.

Obfuscated model solutions are available in the file [obfuscated.txt](https://github.com/ikokkari/PythonProblems/blob/main/obfuscated.txt), to give students the idea of the length and general complexity of the instructor's private solutions.

The lab specification document and the automated tester software [tester109.py](https://github.com/ikokkari/PythonProblems/blob/main/tester109.py) are released under the [GNU General Public License v3](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt), with no warranties implied by the author.

Wordlist `words_sorted.txt` adapted from [dwyl/english-words](https://github.com/dwyl/english-words).

The author welcomes feedback by email at `ilkka.kokkarinen@gmail.com` from computer science instructors who use these problems in their courses. There is room for all races on Earth to live, prosper and get strong at coding by solving the *109 Python Problems*.

Commit message:

Revise README for clarity and completion status
Updated wording for clarity and added completion note for the problem set.

README.md, after:

# 109 Python Problems for CCPS 109

**Beginner Python coders can watch the video [Solving 109 Python Problems for CCPS 109](https://youtu.be/a9EsZl9ryWg) on YouTube for a demonstration of how to solve these problems and use the automated tester.**

This collection features a total of **369 different Python problems** suitable for university level computer science majors from the first freshman introductory course all the way to senior level computer science courses on algorithms and other topics, as taught by [Ilkka Kokkarinen](http://www.scs.ryerson.ca/~ikokkari/) for the Chang School of Continuing Education, Toronto Metropolitan University, Toronto, Canada. The lecture material and example Python programs of that introductory Python course are also freely available in the GitHub repository [ikokkari/PythonExamples](https://github.com/ikokkari/PythonExamples).

The specifications for all these lab problems are collected in the document [109 Python Problems.pdf](https://github.com/ikokkari/PythonProblems/blob/main/109%20Python%20Problems%20for%20CCPS%20109.pdf). Another set of problems was collected to the document [Additional Python Problems.pdf](https://github.com/ikokkari/PythonProblems/blob/main/Additional%20Python%20Problems.pdf), holding another 123 problems in addition to the original problem collection. A third set was collected to the document [Third Python Problem Collection.pdf](https://github.com/ikokkari/PythonProblems/blob/main/Third%20Python%20Problem%20Collection.pdf), holding the final 123 problems. This problem set is now complete, and no new problems will be added to it. Changes to the problem specifications and the automated tester will only be made to correct errors.

All three collections use the same automated tester script [tester109.py](https://github.com/ikokkari/PythonProblems/blob/main/tester109.py) to verify the correctness of student solutions.

These problems are suitable for students who have already completed some introductory collection of finger practice exercises on Python language basics, such as [CodingBat Python](https://codingbat.com/python). The author also has a [similar collection of Java problems](https://github.com/ikokkari/CCPS209Labs) suitable for a second course on object oriented programming in Java and the first course on data structures and algorithms. Everyone teaching or learning Python is welcome to use, adapt and distribute these problems and the associated acceptance tester for their own purposes as they see fit.

A bounty for each unclaimed problem is available to the first person to solve that problem. The file [bounty.md](https://github.com/ikokkari/PythonProblems/blob/main/bounty.md) contains more information.

Obfuscated model solutions are available in the file [obfuscated.txt](https://github.com/ikokkari/PythonProblems/blob/main/obfuscated.txt), to give students the idea of the length and general complexity of the instructor's private solutions.

The lab specification document and the automated tester software [tester109.py](https://github.com/ikokkari/PythonProblems/blob/main/tester109.py) are released under the [GNU General Public License v3](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt), with no warranties implied by the author.

Wordlist `words_sorted.txt` adapted from [dwyl/english-words](https://github.com/dwyl/english-words).

The author welcomes feedback by email at `ilkka.kokkarinen@gmail.com` from computer science instructors who use these problems in their courses. There is room for all races on Earth to live, prosper and get strong at coding by solving the *109 Python Problems*.
